The Kalman filter was invented by Rudolf Kalman,
at a very convenient time in American history.
Soon after developing the algorithm,
Kalman visited his acquaintance,
Stanley Schmidt at his workplace at NASA and introduced the algorithm to NASA staff.
At the time, NASA was struggling to apply existing algorithms to
the nonlinear problem of trajectory estimation for the Apollo program.
The hope was to launch a spacecraft into a trajectory around the moon.
The challenge lay in being able to create something accurate
enough to guide the spacecraft through very narrow quarters of space,
but also efficient enough to run on an on-board computer in the 1960s.
At the time, computing power was very limited in
both the on-board computer and the computer that was used for simulation and testing.
Another challenge was that during the flight of the spacecraft,
measurements would be coming in at irregular time intervals,
something that the existing algorithms were unable to process.
After a lot of work and even some tweaking of the algorithm,
the Kalman filter provided the Apollo mission with
a navigational accuracy to successfully enter orbit around the moon.